\section{Related work}
\label{sec:related-work}

A significant amount of research literature exists for extracting
parallelism from programs~\cite{mgri98,jdon06,mgor06,gsih93,pcar09}. The
polyhedral optimization model~\cite{mgri98} concentrates on extracting
parallelism from loops, which is a form of data-parallelism. The
polyhedral optimization community has concentrated on optimizing for
CPUs and GPUs separately, but to our knowledge has not explored the
combination of the two. Carpenter et. al~\cite{pcar09} have again
explored ideas for partitioning onto heterogeneous architectures, but at
a much smaller scale and again ignoring data-allocation costs and
depending upon the polyhedral model for vectorization. The
StreamIt~\cite{wthi02} community has also explored parallelization
techniques, but they have only targeted homogeneous RAW~\cite{ewai97}
architecture. There are the classical algorithms such as critical path
scheduling~\cite{Kohler1975} and list scheduling~\cite{atho74}, which
have been used for scheduling task parallel process onto homogeneous
architectures. The list scheduling techniques targeting heterogeneous
architectures such as~\cite{htop02} do not exploit SIMD parallelism onto
vector processors. Declustering~\cite{gsih93}, is another technique,
which misses the opportunity to mix SIMD and task-parallel optimizations
together.

Cluster based partitioning techniques~\cite{mmah99,adou04,tbra01} only
consider independent tasks without communication. The proposed
heuristics for partitioning data-parallel applications onto
clusters~\cite{ssan05,skum02} do not consider vectorization potential
available on the compute clusters and only concentrate on partitioning
task parallel processes.

Random search techniques use a specific objective and random choices to
guide them through a search space to arrive at a solution. The objective
is usually derived from information obtained from previous random
searches or a prior knowledge about the system. Genetic Algorithms
(GA)~\cite{265940,shroff1996genetic,singh1995mapping,wang1996genetic} is
a commonly used approach and generates reasonably good results. The
drawback being this requires significantly more time than heusristic
based algorithms~\cite{tbra01}. Moreover these techniques often give
such good results due to a unique set of parameters. Determining such
optimal parameters to fine tune these random techniques to get good
results is a challenge of its own. % Moreover Parameters that give good
% results for a certain scenario may not be the same for a different
% one.

Several other techniques also exist that belong to the same category in
addition to GA such as simulated annealing ~\cite{shroff1996genetic,664363} and
local search methods~\cite{622584,537394} which suffer from the same
disadvantages.



%%% Local Variables:
%%% mode: latex
%%% TeX-master: "bare_conf"
%%% End:
